# Abstract Submission to European R Users Meeting 2020

**Session title:** Supporting R in the Binder Community

**Description:** Binder is a project developed for the community by the community.
It supports the sharing of reproducible computational analyses over the cloud in a variety of programming languages.
The users of mybinder.org (the free and public Binder service) are in a privileged position to suggest the features they want to see, and even contribute them to the project.
That being said, the maintainers and operators of mybinder.org are primarily skilled in Python.
I would like to use my lightning talk session to begin a conversation with the R community on how Binder can better support the needs of R language users, and how they can become involved in the maintenance and development of such a project.

**Session format:** Lightning talk

**Track:** R World

**Keywords (1-3):** reproducibility, binder, community

**Link:** <https://mybinder.org>

[x] First time presenting this?

**Speaker name:** Sarah Gibson

**Speaker tagline:** Research Software Engineer and 2020 Software Sustainability Institute Fellow

**Speaker biography:** Sarah is a Research Software Engineer at The Alan Turing Institute where she implements software best practices to translate academic research into real world solutions through the Turing's collaborative network.
Sarah is also an operator and maintainer for the Binder project and runs a BinderHub cluster at the Turing which receives traffic from mybinder.org.
This year, she is also honoured to be a Software Sustainability Institute Fellow and is using her Fellowship to nurture and diversify the Binder community.

**Speaker photo:** (GitHub profile pic)

**Twitter:** <https://twitter.com/drsarahlgibson>

**Blog:** <https://sgibson91.github.io/blog>

**GitHub profile:** <https://github.com/sgibson91>
